---
title: Installing packages
parent: Installation
nav_order: 20
---

# Installing packages

We provide SCION packages for the use with SCIONLab for different Linux package management systems.

* **deb** for Debian, Ubuntu, Mint, Raspbian etc.
  Packages available for x86, x86-64, arm32 and arm64 platforms.

  This is the primary supported system and is described in detail below.

* **RPM** for RedHat, CentOS, Fedora etc.
  Packages available for x86, x86-64, arm32 and arm64 platforms.

  We build these packages but they are not currently sufficiently tested and not published on a public repository.
  Please get in contact if you are interested to tinker with this.

* **AUR**, Arch Linux

  User contribution provided on a best-efforts basis by Thorben Krüger.
  See [https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/scionlab-git/](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/scionlab-git/)


## Installation on Ubuntu

On Ubuntu, you can install SCION from our `.deb`-packages by running:

```shell
sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates
echo "deb [trusted=yes] https://packages.netsec.inf.ethz.ch/debian all main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/scionlab.list
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install scionlab
```

This will install all the SCION services (which come as individual packages),
`systemd` unit files to run the services as well as a helper script to
install the SCION configuration generated by the SCIONLab coordination website.


{% include alert type="note" content="
The SCION services will be run in systemd units, as user `scion`.
The configuration files for the SCION services are kept in `/etc/scion/`,
and state (sqlite db-files) will be placed in `/var/run/scion/`.
The SCION services log to the systemd journal, which can be accessed using the `journalctl` (see [Running SCION](#running-scion) below)
" %}

## Configuration

After [creating or modifying your AS](../config/create_as.html) in the SCIONLab coordination website, you can deploy the generated configuration to your machine.
For this, the recommended approach is to simply run the `scionlab-config` script that is included in the `scionlab` package.

### `scionlab-config`
This script allows to conveniently fetch and install the configuration for your AS from the SCIONLab website.

```shell
sudo scionlab-config --host-id=<...> --host-secret=<...>
```
The required `host-id` and `host-secret` will be displayed on the SCIONLab website.
The script will (re-)start all the configured services (and OpenVPN `client-scionlab-<attachment point ISD-AS>`, if configured).
The `host-id` and `host-secret` information will be stored in
`/etc/scion/scionlab-config.json` and will not have to be entered
again.  To update the configuration after modifying your AS, simply run
```shell
sudo scionlab-config
```

Run `scionlab-config --force` to get the configuration even if the SCIONLab coordination
website thinks you're running the latest version, e.g. in case you've locally
modified your configuration and want it to be reset.



### Unpack configuration manually
As an alternative to running `scionlab-config`, you can manually download the
configuration tarfile from the SCIONLab website and unpack it.

1. Download the configuration tarfile from the SCIONLab coordination website.

2. If using VPN, extract the `client-scionlab-<attachment point ISD-AS>.conf` to `/etc/openvpn/` and (re-)start OpenVPN

        #!shell
        sudo systemctl restart openvpn@client-scionlab-<attachment point ISD-AS>

3. Extract the content of the `/etc/scion/` subdirectory
4. Enable the systemd units listed in `scionlab-config.json`:

        #!shell
        sudo systemctl enable scion-border-router@br-1.service
        sudo systemctl enable scion-control-service@cs-1.service
        sudo systemctl enable scion-daemon.service
        sudo systemctl enable scion-dispatcher.service
        sudo systemctl start scionlab.target


## Running SCION

If using VPN, ensure that the OpenVPN-client is up **before** starting the SCION services.
```shell
sudo systemctl start openvpn@client-scionlab-<attachment point ISD-AS>
```
Check that the expected `tun0` tunnel-interface is created before continuing. Please refer to corresponding [troubleshooting](../faq/troubleshooting.html) page.

[//]: # (TODO This may become obsolete if openvpn@client is included as a dependency for the BRs.)


The SCION services are configured as `systemd`-units that are controlled by the target `scionlab.target`.
To start all the configured SCION services, simply run

```shell
sudo systemctl start scionlab.target
```


Check the status of the SCION services using
```shell
sudo systemctl list-dependencies scionlab.target
```

To stop the services, run
```shell
sudo systemctl stop scionlab.target
```

Use `journalctl` to inspect the log output of a service in the systemd journal, for example
```shell
sudo journalctl -e -u scion-control-service@cs-1.service
```


## Applications

Most of our applications in [`scion-apps`](https://github.com/netsec-ethz/scion-apps/) are available as packages too.
Assuming you've added the SCIONLab packages list above, to install all applications in one go simply run

```shell
sudo apt-get install scion-apps-*
```

or install them individually, e.g. for [bwtester](../apps/bwtester.html)
```shell
sudo apt-get install scion-apps-bwtester
```
